---
title: What this blog is about?
author: Wasif Hasan Baig
---

This very first post of the blog attempts to clarify intent of this blog.
I have been interested in Coding from a very young age.
My oldest memories of coding goes back to writing ActionScript in Macromedia
Flash MX.
Ever since I have been fascinated by the world of software and coding.

the art and science of software craftsmanship.

This blog records my journey to grapling the higher order abstractions of
Category Theory.
My journey starts with the fundamentals that is Logic and will go on to record
the higher order abstractions of Abstract Algebra, Category Theory and Homotopy
Type Theory.

One of the reason for starting this blog is to challenge myself to articulate
the concepts that I know I understand.
The challenge mainly is to convey them to a suitable audience in a manner that
is readily understood.

I realized a pattern that unlocks various abstractions as I struggle to grasp
them.
I decided to record that process and articulate my thoughts in order to better
understand the concepts.

I will be using JavaScript as the vehicle of conveying 

What are the reasons of choosing JS?

  #. It's functional.
  #. It's widely understood (or misunderstood as some people would say).
  #. It's accessible (just launch the console in your browser).
  #. Anchoring new concepts in familiarity has better chances of success as this paper suggests.
     Let this blog put this proposition/hypothesis to test.

Some sections on the blog

This blog is not just about Programming or Type Theory.
It's about developing an intimate knowledge of the subject starting from
familiarity.
Doing so may necessitate stepping into philosophy sometimes.
But we'll try to have some fun.

A section on the blog should be devoted to demystifying the mathematical
symbology.
Proposed titles:

  #. Demystifying Symbolism
  #. Symbols are your friends


Exposition of a certain topic is necessary to create good understanding.
Making mathematical topics accessible is one of the goals of my writings.

We'll start with basics of logic and lambda calculus.

How do you explain the difference between classical logic and intuitionistic
logic.



Start with classical logic
Propositions and Types (Curry Howard Isomorphism)
Introduce symbolic logic
Talk about trees
Talk about equations and expressions
Motivation
Start with solving equations to lambda calculus
Talk about functions (start with farenheit to celsius function)
Total vs partial functions
Different ways to think about functions
First class functions
Currying and partial application
Strict vs Lazy evaluation






What is Logic
What is the Study of Logic
Why study Logic?


Informal Logic
Formal Logic
Symbolic Logic
Mathematical Logic

Start with a motivating example?

Let's consider the following statements that you might say or hear in your
everyday encounters:

  - "I own a phone and a tablet."
  - "I will not be coming to the party if it rains today."
  - "It's not a sunny day."
  - "All men are mortal. Socrates is a man. Socrates is mortal."

Logic concerns itself with what follows does it make sense or not.







Almost every high school student knows how to solve the following equation:

